# INFO445-GreenThumb
Homegrown fresh fruits, vegetables, and herbs taste far better than their store-bought counterparts, but many people don’t have access to them. Some people have backyard gardens and greenhouses, and can produce harvests beyond what they eat. We want to connect people interested in buying with people who have gardens in their local area by providing a service that allows growers to post offerings. Users can enter their address to find local growers to buy from. Our service would also contain regional community-editable guides and message boards that give tips to grow plants in the user’s local area, giving specific insight into how to grow plants based on where they live. By incentivising and supporting gardening, more people will start doing it, leading to greater sustainability. We hope the business will build neighborhood communities and increase access to more region-specific information about growing plants.
Our users include gardeners, farmers, horticulture hobbyists, and fresh produce consumers. Pros and hobbyists can discuss growing, and sellers and customers can get in touch, allowing them to initiate financial transactions.
Users can make decisions about growing, buying, selling, or exchanging plants with other users. Pros and hobbyists will be able to determine what plants grow best in their region and how to best grow them, and message boards allow them to exchange advice. The marketplace gives buyers specific plant data and grower ratings when choosing purchases. Growers can make decisions about demand and prices for produce.
Social community eCommerce sites like craigslist have seen U.S. transactions exceeding 700m/yr. In Seattle alone, they exceed 20m/year (Kidd, 2011), averaging over 50,000/day. Transactions could grow to million(s)/day nationally. Our database’s volume will be more seasonal and dependent on supply. However, growers posting offerings, regular subscription transactions, buying transactions that hand off to payment gateways, new user signups, and social forum posts may create similar high volume. 
For business rules, financial records are primarily transactional and should therefore never be deleted. Since posts reference each other, threads, etc., they similarly, will not be “totally” deleted, even if they are censored, moderated or edited. Growing articles and plant data can be updated, but since users can enter data, all data must be sanitized or inserts and updates will fail to prevent misuse of the features or abusing other users. Since we will have authorization tokens for payment gateways, we will also need to adhere to security constraints required per payment processor.
Kidd, G. 2011. craigslist: By The Numbers. 3taps. [White Paper]. Retrieved from http://3taps.com/papers/Craigslist-by-the-Numbers.pdf.
